This document will explain how to go about capturing packets from an iPhone
using the Wireshark software on macOS.


To start, you'll want to make sure your mac's software is as up-to-date as
possible so as to avoid any issues related to out-of-date software, since that
can be difficult to diagnose sometimes. You will need to download Wireshark and 
Xcode.

The Wireshark software can be found on the official website. You should be 
able to find their 'Download' page on theirwebsite at 
https://www.wireshark.org. (Make sure the download you select is
compatible with your computer's operating system.)

Once you've downloaded Wireshark, you'll need to go through the installation
process which your computer should guide you through once you click on the
download from the file's location in your computer.

Xcode can be found in the app store, search "app store" on the finder and then
search Xcode through the app store search bar. Download the latest update, you
may need to restart your computer.

Grab your iPhone and a cord to connect it to your mac. Connect your iPhone 
to your mac and open Xcode. Once your devices are connected open Xcode and 
open up the Devices and Simulators window. You can do this by going to Window
in the tool bar and the "Devices and Simulators" or by pressin shift+cmd+2.
You will see your device listed in this window, click on it and your device will
be displayed along with the UDID, copy this ID and save it somewhere as it is important.

Next open your terminal open, paste this command in your command line:

sudo installer -pkg /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Resources/Packages/MobileDeviceDevelopment.pkg -target /

This command should ensure that mobile development tools are installed onto your Xcode.
If the command is successful, you should see something that says, "installer:
The upgrade was successful" or some variation of that. Once you see that, type
(without the quotes, substituting your UDID you copied): "rvictl -s <your UDID>"

Upon success, you should see something that says, "Starting device <your UDID>
[SUCCEEDED] with interface <interface name>"

At this point, go to Wireshark and find the interface name in the list of
connections on the homepage of the Wireshark app on your computer. Double-click
and you should see your packets being captured by the Wireshark software. :)


By default, Wireshark saves files in a pcappng format. It is recommended that you download as pcap file.
In order to get a .csv file for easier-analysis, Wireshark provides a tool to
do so under "Export Specified Packets".

Packets under protocol NaN, MDNS, ICMP, and NTP can be safely ignored for purposes of analysis.

Last updated:
11/16/2021 1:08 AM (Armira Nance)

Source:
https://developer.apple.com/forums/thread/655329
